---
title: Some new stuff for Clist Nicer+
date: 2006-05-24T04:10:53+00:00
modified: 2006-05-24T04:10:53+00:00
author: Admin
layout: topics
tag: first
excerpt: >
 I've done some work on *clist_nicer+* the last few days to fix a few problems and enhance a few things.
---
{% include content/tabsrmm_warning.md %}

# Some news on Clist_nicer+

I've done some work on \*clist_nicer+\* the last few days to fix a few problems and enhance a few things.

\*The embedded contact lists (like in the ignore or typing notify option dialogs) now appear unskinned and even more simplified\*. Basically, they look like clist_classic now and use the colors and fonts which have been set as dtefault. They ignore all skin item definitions (basically everything on the Background+ page).
  
This makes them easier to use and easier to read, also, no matter how you configured your skin, the embedded contact lists will always be easy to read and not waste too much space.

\*Slow and/or delayed redraws while protocols are connecting should be fixed\*.

\*New sorting method added\*. Inspired by an idea from Scott, I added a %{color:blue}Sort by message frequency% sorting method. It considers the frequency of +received+ messages to sort contacts. A high message frequency will put contacts on top of the list or group, while a lower frequency will place them at the bottom. 

+Please note a few things regarding this feature:+ 

* This feature will work better over time. When used for the first time, the contact list gathers some information about the message frequency of the last 100 days. This is, however, not 100% accurate. Over time, the sorting should become better, because the clist updates the message frequency data everytime you receive a new message - the more you chat, the more accurate the data will become, but in the beginning it is more like a "guess" - although, the most active contacts should still appear on top of the list or group.

* It only considers message events - all other events are ignored for building the statistical data.

* The message frequency is simply the average time between received message events from a given contact, so this sorting method will prioritize contacts who send you messages often.

[thumb:6:l:l=d]\*Skinning internal frames\* It is now possible to define skin elements for the frame borders (not only the frame title bars). This works best with image based skinning which is in the works and will be released soon. To illustrate what it means, just look at the picture. Note that all frames have a skinned border (which is actually a PNG image). With a fully transparent contact list, this can create some pretty cool results - it will just look like several independant windows with spacing between them, each of them having its own skinned title bar.