---
author: Alex Vie
title: Oscar Night
layout: default_dyn
date: 2018-03-05T06:02:30+0100
modified: 2018-03-05T06:02:36+0100
menucontext: blog
share: 1
disqus: 1
reduced: big
tag: [first,music,video]
category: [Entertainment]
backlink: /blog
excerpt: >
    Today, it's Oscar Night. The 90th Academy Awards ceremony takes place in the honorable Dolby 
    Theatre. Being a Cinenut ever since my dad took me to the local movie theatre for watching *Star 
    Wars: The Empire Strikes Back* when I was a young boy, this is a must watch for me. 
    <br><br> 
    I have seen most of the nominated movies and for the first time, I don't really have clear 
    favorites. Be it Dunkirk, The Shape Of Water, The Darkest Hour or Three Billboards... - they're 
    all exceptionally well made and the same is true for the other nominees. We'll see how the Academy 
    members decide...
---

# Oscar Night!
{% include defs.md %}
{% include post_header.html %}

<div class="note blue" markdown="1">
<h3 class="alert">Update (March 6th, 2018)</h3>

The Oscar Night is now a event of the past.
<br><br>
For the curious, [here](http://oscar.go.com/winners) are the full results with all nominees and winners.
</div>

It's Oscar Night and so far, it's going pretty much straightforward and thus a bit disappointing. It's 
not the nominees or the movies themselves, in fact, there is a lot of great stuff this year, it's just 
that everything goes as expected and according to the plan. Favorite wins and no big surprises up 
until now (I'm writing this while the nominees for best original score are announced). Gary Oldman and 
Frances McDormand already received their well deserved prices, both for absolutely brilliant acting 
performances in their respective movies.
{:dc} 
 
Speaking of original scores - here is one that deserved the Award more than any other in the last 10 
years, but came out blank.
 
{% include youtube.html id='UDVtMYqUAyw' %}

Hans Zimmer, who wrote that magnificent piece of sound track for the movie 
[Interstellar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstellar_%28film%29), is among the nominees for the 
2018 award today with his creation for 
[Dunkirk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunkirk_%282017_film%29), but this year's award went to the sound 
track for [The Shape of Water](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shape_of_Water_%28film%29). Again, no 
surprise and, to be honest, Zimmer has done much better work in the past. 
 
## The Big Winner

**The Shape of Water** won a total of four awards, including the two „big ones” (best picture and 
[best director](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guillermo_del_Toro)), followed by Dunkirk with three. 
Blade Runner 2049, Coco, Darkest Hour and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri won two awards 
each. One golden guy each was awarded to I, Tonya, Get Out, Call Me by Your Name, A Fantastic Woman, 
Icarus, Phantom Thread, Heaven Is a Traffic Jam on the 405, The Silent Child, and Dear Basketball.

Clearly, there is no mega winner this year and overall, we have fifteen movies with at least one 
award. That's a lot more than last year's nine awarded productions and a good sign for the high number 
of quality productions among the nominees. 

## This and that

The Ceremony was straightforward and - as expected - professional. Host Jimmy Kimmel delivered a solid 
but uninspiring performance. At the beginning, he promised a price for the award winner who would 
deliver the shortest acceptance speech. Later in the show, he came up with a big surprise for the 
visitors of a nearby movie theatre just across the street of the famous Dolby Theatre where the Oscar 
ceremony traditionally takes place. Kimmel and a number of celebrities, including Gal Gadot, Emily 
Blunt, Armie Hammer and many others, headed over, gifted the unsuspecting movie-goers snacks and 
candies, announcing „*You're live at the Oscars*” in the process. Whether it was staged or not, nobody 
knows. It did serve as a welcome break from the cyclic routine consisting of announcing nominees, 
followed by announcing the winner, followed by a thanks speech. Throw in a commercial break, rinse and 
repeat.

Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway got their second chance to announce the winner in the best movie 
category, and this time, they got it right (we still remember last year's [epic 
mishap](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSCuGj0pIww), don't we?). Not that it was their fault last 
year, but still embarrassing for sure.
 
Frances McDormand, who won the award in the best actress category for her stellar performance in Three 
Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, delivered an emotional acceptance speech with a clear statement 
for gender equality and more inclusion in Hollywood. In her closing words, she encouraged all present 
female award nominees to make use of Inclusion Riders[^iride].
 
[^iride]: Basically, it's an amendment to a contract which states that certain levels of diversity are
    to be met in a production. For example, such a clause could require a certain percentage of acting 
    and/or supporting personnel to be female or people of color.
